# 30-day learning plan


## Day 1-3: Introduction and Setup 

Day 1: Familiarize yourself with the basics of FastAPI by reading the 
official documentation and understanding its features and benefits. 

Day 2: Install FastAPI and create a basic "Hello, World!" API using FastAPI. 
Experiment with routing, request/response handling, and basic validation. 

Day 3: Explore the interactive API documentation generated by FastAPI. 
Understand how to customize and annotate your code to enhance the 
documentation. 

## Day 4-7: Models and Validation 

Day 4: Learn about Pydantic models and how to define them. Understand how to 
use models to validate incoming requests and define response structures. 

Day 5: Practice working with models by creating more complex request/response 
structures. Explore advanced features like nested models and custom 
validation. 

Day 6: Dive deeper into request and response validation by using data types, 
enums, and optional fields. Understand how to handle errors and provide 
meaningful responses. 

Day 7: Review and reinforce your understanding of models and validation by 
building a small API project that includes different types of requests and 
responses. 

## Day 8-12: Advanced Routing and Data 

Day 8: Learn about path parameters and query parameters in FastAPI. Practice 
extracting and validating these parameters in your API endpoints. 

Day 9: Explore request bodies in FastAPI and understand how to handle 
different content types like JSON and form data. Experiment with validating 
and processing request bodies. 

Day 10: Deepen your knowledge of routing by implementing sub-routers, 
handling different HTTP methods, and organizing your API code into modules. 

Day 11: Experiment with handling file uploads in FastAPI using the UploadFile 
class. Learn how to validate and process uploaded files in your API. 

Day 12: Create a more advanced project that incorporates path parameters, 
query parameters, request bodies, and file uploads. 

## Day 13-18: Authentication and Authorization 

Day 13: Study the basics of authentication and authorization in web APIs. 
Understand common authentication mechanisms like OAuth2 and JWT. 

Day 14: Explore different authentication methods and libraries that can be 
integrated with FastAPI, such as OAuth2 providers or token-based 
authentication. 

Day 15: Implement authentication and authorization in your FastAPI project. 
Secure your API endpoints based on user roles or permissions. 

Day 16: Dive deeper into authentication and authorization by handling refresh 
tokens, session-based authentication, or integrating third-party 
authentication providers. 

Day 17: Practice testing your authenticated endpoints using the FastAPI test 
client and authentication-related assertions. 

Day 18: Consolidate your knowledge of authentication and authorization by 
building a secure API project that requires proper authentication and 
authorization. 

## Day 19-23: Advanced Features and Integration 

Day 19: Learn about background tasks in FastAPI and how to execute 
asynchronous tasks while responding to clients immediately. 

Day 20: Experiment with WebSocket communication in FastAPI. Build a real-time 
feature in your API using WebSocket endpoints. 

Day 21: Study Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) and its importance in web 
APIs. Implement CORS handling in your FastAPI project. 

Day 22: Explore middleware in FastAPI and understand how it can be used to 
modify requests and responses globally for all endpoints. 

Day 23: Experiment with custom exceptions and error handling in FastAPI. 
Learn how to handle and respond to different types of errors gracefully. 

## Day 24-30: Project Building and Deployment 

Day 24-27: Undertake a project of your choice using FastAPI. Apply your 
learnings from the previous days to build a practical and real-world 
application. 

Day 28-29: Test your project thoroughly, write unit tests for your endpoints, 
and ensure proper error handling and validation. 

Day 30: Explore deployment options for FastAPI. Deploy your project using an 
ASGI server, Docker, or a cloud platform like Heroku or AWS. 



