# Main Topics

**Python 3.7+ and Type Hints:** FastAPI leverages Python 3.7 features such as 
type hints, which provide static type checking and improve code 
maintainability. 

**Asynchronous Support:** FastAPI is designed to handle high-performance and 
asynchronous tasks efficiently using asynchronous Python frameworks like 
asyncio and await syntax. 

**API Routing:** FastAPI allows you to define API endpoints using decorators, 
such as @app.get, @app.post, @app.put, and @app.delete, which map URL paths 
to functions. 

**Request and Response Models:** You can use Pydantic models to define the 
structure and validation rules for incoming requests and outgoing responses. 

**Automatic API Documentation:** FastAPI generates interactive API 
documentation automatically using the OpenAPI (previously known as Swagger) 
standard. You can access it at /docs endpoint. 

**Type Validation and Conversion:** FastAPI automatically validates and 
converts incoming request data based on the type hints and Pydantic models, 
reducing manual data validation efforts. 

**Dependency Injection:** FastAPI supports dependency injection, allowing you 
to declare dependencies required by your API functions. These dependencies 
are automatically created and passed to your functions. 

**Path Parameters:** FastAPI allows you to define path parameters in the URL, 
such as /items/{item_id}, which can be accessed as function parameters. 

**Query Parameters:** You can extract query parameters from the URL using 
fastapi.Query and declare them as function parameters with default values. 

**Request Body:** FastAPI supports request bodies with various data types (
JSON, form data, etc.). You can define request bodies using Pydantic models, 
making it easy to handle and validate complex data structures. 

**Response Models:** FastAPI enables you to specify response models using 
Pydantic models, ensuring consistent and well-documented API responses. 

**Authentication and Authorization:** FastAPI integrates well with 
authentication and authorization mechanisms. You can use libraries like 
OAuth2, JWT, or session-based authentication to secure your APIs. 

**Background Tasks:** FastAPI allows you to run background tasks using 
BackgroundTasks, enabling you to perform tasks asynchronously while 
responding to the client immediately. 

**File Uploads:** FastAPI simplifies handling file uploads by providing an 
easy-to-use UploadFile class that allows you to receive and process uploaded 
files. 

**WebSocket Support:** FastAPI supports WebSocket communication, making it 
possible to build real-time applications and bidirectional communication with 
clients. 

**CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing): **FastAPI supports CORS 
configuration, allowing you to define the origins and headers that can access 
your API. 

**Testing:** FastAPI provides test client utilities that enable you to write 
tests for your API endpoints and perform assertions on the responses. 

**Middleware:** FastAPI supports the use of middleware, which allows you to 
modify requests and responses globally for all endpoints. 

**Custom Exceptions and Error Handling:** FastAPI enables you to define 
custom exceptions and error handlers to handle and respond to exceptions in a 
consistent manner. 

**Deployment:** FastAPI can be deployed using various options like ASGI 
servers, Docker containers, serverless platforms, or as part of existing web 
server setups. 


